# Image Processing - PCSC Project

### Welcome to the Image Processing - PCSC project! 

This project focuses on image processing. 
It provides basic image processing features such as the computation of **intensity histograms**, **discrete Fourier transforms**, and **filtering** operations such as **contour extraction** and **noise removal**.

This README.md file will guide you through compiling the program, understanding the typical program execution flow, exploring its features, running tests, and highlighting known issues and potential future improvements.

## Table of Contents

- [Compilation](#compilation)
- [Program Execution Flow](#program-execution-flow)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tests](#tests)
- [Issues](#issues)
- [Perspectives](#perspectives)

## Compilation

To compile the program, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://gitlab.epfl.ch/tabary/pcsc_imageprocessing.git
   ```

2. **Navigate to the project directory:**
   ```bash
   cd pcsc_imageprocessing
   ```

3. **Init and update the submodules:**
   ```bash
   git submodule update --init eigen
   git submodule update --init googletest
   git submodule update --init gnuplot-iostream

   ```
4. **Build and compile the project:**
   ```bash
    cmake CMakeLists.txt -B build
    make -C build
   ```
   This will produce the executables in the `bin/` directory of the project.

5. **Create an output directory**
   ```bash
    mkdir output
   ```
    Simply creates the `output/` directory which will contain files generated by the program.

## Program Execution Flow and usage

The typical execution flow of the program is as follows:

1. **Run the program executable**
   ```bash
   cd bin
    ./image_processor input_image process_to_apply
    ```
    where :
    - `input_image` is the filename of the image you want to process. This image file should be located in the `in` directory and its format should be **PPM**.
    - `process_to_apply` is the process you want to apply to this image. 
    
    In this version of the project, `process_to_apply` has to be either **plot_hist**, **compute_hist**, **contour_extraction**, or **noise_removal**. 
2. **Processed Image:**

   The program will generate an output in folder `output/` according to the process applied.

## Features

- **Intensity histogram**
- **Contour extraction**
- **Noise removal**
- **1D and 2D DFT, and their inverse**
- **1D and 2D FFT, and their inverse**

## Tests

The project includes a set of tests to ensure the functionality and stability of the image processing features. Run tests using:

```bash
cd bin
./test_pixel
./test_image
./test_compute
./example_histogram
./test_FT
```

## Issues
- In this version, the contour extraction and noise removal features cannot handle rectangle images (only square images).
- The Pixel class is sementically meaningfull though maybe not optimal in terms of programming : it slows manipulations of channels...
## Perspectives

Future improvements and features may include:
